---
layout: post
title: Optimization Grand Challenge 2024 Review
date: 2024-11-21 12:00:00+0900
description: Meta-heuristic Algotithm for VRP
tags: optimization, heuristic
categories: code
images:
  slider: true
---

I participated in a community event hosted by the [Optimization Community (Korea)][OptKorea] on November 20, 2024. It was a great opportunity to connect and have conversations with many professionals from academia and industry. I was also lucky enough to give a short presentation about our recent victory in the *Optimization Grand Challenge 2024*, focusing on our winning approach. Thinking it would be helpful to share the content of my presentation, I decided to write this blog post.


<br>
### About Optimization Grand Challenge 2024
---
The *Optimization Grand Challenge 2024* was hosted by LG CNS in collaboration with the Korean Institute of Industrial Engineers. The competition attracted 378 teams (827 participants) and spanned approximately five months -- a lengthy and challenging journey. Fortunately, out team, DMS (consisting of myself and [Seoyong Lee][syleeKR]), managed to solve 6 out of 10 problems in the final round and secured 1st place in the competition. As part of our victory, we took home a prize of 10 million won. For more details, visit the ~~[official site][ogc2024]~~, check out the [notion page][ogc2024_notion], or read an article about it [here][article]!


<br>
### Problem Summary
---
Let's start with brief overview of the challenge problem. Assume that you are an optimization engineer at a food delivery company. Your task is to efficiently match a set of orders with available riders. There are three types of riders (i.e., Walk, Bike, Car), each with varying capacities, speeds, service times, and costs. The goal is to minimize the total cost of bundle delivery, which includes a fixed cost and a variable cost proportional to the delivery distance. Additionally, there are specific constraints to consider, as outlined below.

- Constraint 1: The total volume of a bundle of orders must not exceed the rider's capacity: **Capacity Constraint**
- Constraint 2: All orders must be delivered before their respective deadlines: **Time Constraint**
- Constraint 3: For bundle deliveries, all pickups must be completed before starting the deliveries: **Visit Sequence Constraint**
- Constraint 4: Every order must be delivered by a rider without any omission: **Order Fulfillment Constraint**
- Constraint 5: Each rider can be assigned at most one bundle delivery: **Rider Assignment Constraint**

This problem can be described as a variant of the <U>Pickup and Delivery Problem</U> with <U>Time Windows</U> for <U>Capacitated</U> and <U>Heterogeneous</U> Vehicle Fleets.


<br>
### Our Approaches
---
**1st Version: Vanilla ALNS**

Our initial approach was a vanilla version of **Adaptive Large Neighborhood Search (ALNS)**! In this context, *"neighborhood"* refers to the set of solutions generated by making small changes to the current solution (e.g., removing and reassigning orders). ALNS works by exploring the neighborhood of the current solution to find better ones.

But what do *"Adaptive"* and *"Large"* mean in ALNS? Unlike other neighborhood search methods, ALNS uses a wide variety of removal and insertion methods. When modifying the current solution, ALNS selects one removal method and one insertion method, which together explore a much larger neighborhood space. The "Adaptive" part comes from how ALNS adjusts the probabilities of selecting each method over time, giving preference to methods that perform well. This makes ALNS both flexible and efficient in improving solutions!

When a new solution is generated, ALNS decides whether to accept or reject it based on certain acceptance criteria. There criteria include Simulated Annealing or Hill Climbing, etc.

-> Using this approach, we reached **15th** place. It wasn't bad, but we still had a long way to go.


<br>
**2nd Version: Vanilla ALNS + SPP**

We found a very powerful method, called **Set-Partitioning Problem (SPP)**! In ALNS, information about old bundles are not used at all. Can we use it? We can use the pool of stored bundles to build SPP and solve it with mixed integer programming(MIP) solver.

$$
\begin{aligned}
    &\text{min}  && \begin{equation} \sum_{r \in R^{pool}} c_r z_r \end{equation} \\
    &\text{s.t.} && s \in S \\
    & && ss
\end{aligned}
$$

We can utilize it by using whole bundles as columns of SPP. 



[OptKorea]: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/14302402/
[syleeKR]: https://seoyong-lee-official.github.io/
[ogc2024]: https://www.optichallenge.com/
[ogc2024_notion]: https://optichallenge.notion.site/OGC2024-be66791b61804bf29e991f6ab6941d5d
[article]: https://www.lgcns.com/pr/news/61527/